1.What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange" : string
42 : integer
09/02/1945 : dates
98.7 : float
$15.99 :numeric value




2. Explain in your own words when a database might be used. Explain when a text file might be used.

A database might be used when storing and accessing data in an easier matter and that can handle multiple applications accessing the data.

Text file might be used when data



3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.

SQL is a declarative rather than a procedural language. SQL's declarative programming is like describing a result and you get it back.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.



5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.

table: contains rows and columns and each cell in a table contains a particular value. Columns define what the data represents and rows make up a complete conceptual unit.



6. List 3 data types that can be used in a table.

string, integer, object



7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

     SELECT date, amount
     FROM payments;

     SELECT amount
     FROM payments
     WHERE amount > 500;

     SELECT *
     FROM payments
     WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';


1. We're selecting two columns: date, amount from the payments table.
2. we select one column: amount from the payments table where amount is larger than 500
3. we select all columns from users table that matches where payee is 'Mega Foods'



8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
Additional practice:

SELECT email, signup
FROM users
WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

Result: email: datad@comcast.net signup: 2008-01-20

SELECT id
FROM users
WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

result:  id: 1

SELECT *
FROM users
WHERE id = 4;

result: name: Brandy Boolean email: bboolean@nasa.gov signup: 1999-10-15
